Package: Add new kirby-extensions angular library (#3477)
kirbydesign/designsystem: libs/extensions/angular/CONTRIBUTING.md

> # Extensions Contribution Guidelines

Reviewer: Maybe:
```suggestion
# Kirby Extensions Contribution Guidelines
```

> ## Fixing Bugs and Adding Features

Reviewer: Maybe flip the two to make it more positive? 🤔 
```suggestion
## Adding Features and Fixing Bugs
```

> If you wish to contribute a fix or a feature the preferred process is as follows:

Reviewer: Maybe flip the two to make it more positive? 🤔
```suggestion
If you wish to contribute a feature or a bug fix the preferred process is as follows:
```

> 1. **Open a [new issue](https://github.com/kirbydesign/designsystem/issues/new/choose)** (See: "[The good: Issue](https://github.com/kirbydesign/designsystem/wiki/The-Good%3A-Issue)") if one is not already added to the issue tracker.

Reviewer: Consider readability:
```suggestion
1. **Open a [new issue](https://github.com/kirbydesign/designsystem/issues/new/choose)** if a similar issue is not already added to the issue tracker (See guidelines on how to write  "[The good: Issue](https://github.com/kirbydesign/designsystem/wiki/The-Good%3A-Issue)").
```

2. **Implementation:**
   - Make sure you have read: "[Before you get coding](https://github.com/kirbydesign/designsystem/blob/develop/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#before-you-get-coding)".
   - Signal to others you are working on the issue by assigning yourself.
   - Create a branch from the [develop branch](https://github.com/kirbydesign/designsystem/tree/develop) following our [branch naming convention](https://github.com/kirbydesign/designsystem/wiki/The-Good%3A-Branch).

>    - Consider creating test that reproduces the bug or validates the feature, following guidelines in: "[The good: Test](https://github.com/kirbydesign/designsystem/wiki/The-Good%3A-Test)".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Consider creating test(s) that reproduces the bug or validates the feature, following guidelines in: "[The good: Test](https://github.com/kirbydesign/designsystem/wiki/The-Good%3A-Test)".
```

3. **Create a PR with your changes.**

## Creating a new Component

Kirby Extensions exposes individual components as secondary entries in the packaged library. This allows cherry-picking and lazy loading individual components in apps, reducing overhead in the initial bundle. At the same time it creates a healthy separation of concerns between components.

> A secondary entry point can be seen as a sub-module of the package, and is imported in code on the form `@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/component-name`. Generally there should be one entry point per extension, similar to how the core library has entry points for button, card etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A secondary entry point can be seen as a sub-module of the package and is imported in code as `@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/component-name`. Generally there should be one entry point per component, similar to how the core library has entry points for button, card etc.
```

> A secondary entry point can be created from the command like with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A secondary entry point can be created from the command line with the following:
```

```shell
npx nx g library-secondary-entry-point --name=new-component-name --library=extensions-angular --skip-module
```

> The skip-module flag is added here as in the following we will want to create a self-contained standalone UI component for others to consume. If a module is needed for your specific use-case, omit the flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `skip-module` flag is added here as we want to create a self-contained standalone UI component for others to consume. If a module is needed for your specific use-case, omit the flag.
```

> Now with the secondary entry point in place, a new component with the same name as the secondary entry point can be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the secondary entry point in place a new component with the same name can be added:
```

```shell
npx nx g component --name=new-component-name --directory=libs/extensions/angular/new-component-name/src
```

> Remember to export the component and any related utils and types needed by consumers from the entry points index.ts file. This ensures that it is picked up by the packaging process, and made available to consumers under `@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember to export the component and any related utils and types needed by consumers from the entry point´s `index.ts` file. This ensures that it is picked up by the packaging process and made available to consumers under `@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name`.
```

> Remember to export the component and any related utils and types needed by consumers from the entry points index.ts file. This ensures that it is picked up by the packaging process, and made available to consumers under `@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name`.

Author: ```suggestion
Remember to export the component and any related utils and types needed by consumers from the entry point's `index.ts` file. This ensures that it is picked up by the packaging process, and made available to consumers under `@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name`.
```

> Remember to export the component and any related utils and types needed by consumers from the entry points index.ts file. This ensures that it is picked up by the packaging process, and made available to consumers under `@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name`.

Author: ```suggestion
Remember to export the component and any related utils and types needed by consumers from the entry point's `index.ts` file. This ensures that it is picked up by the packaging process, and made available to consumers under `@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name`.
```

> The generator adds a tsconfig path `tsconfig.base.json` to resolve any local `@kirbydesign/extensions-angular` references during development. This path should be modified to point to the compiled output in the projects dist-folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generator adds a path in `tsconfig.base.json` to resolve any local `@kirbydesign/extensions-angular` references during development. This path should be modified to point to the compiled output in the project's `dist`-folder.
```

```ts
"@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name": ["libs/extensions/angular/dist/new-component-name"]
```

> This is done so that our local tools, like Storybook, will not compile the components using their own build-pipeline but instead use the components similar to how consuming apps will.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is to ensure that local tools—like Storybook—will not compile the components using their own build-pipeline but import and use the components from the precompiled build output similar to how consuming apps will.
```

## Local Development

For components in the extensions workspace, we use [Storybook](https://Storybook.js.org/docs/get-started) as a one-stop shop for local development, documentation and screenshot testing.

> All components should have a story file, so we have a starting point for debugging and playing around with the component during development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All components should have a story file as a starting point to debug and interact with the component during development.
```

> Stories files can be generated with nx, and should then be picked up by Storybook automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Story files can be generated with nx and will be picked up by Storybook automatically.  
_Please note: This command will generate a story file for every component that doesn't already have one. Feel free to delete any generated story file(s) unrelated to your new component/extension. _
```

```shell
npx nx g @nx/angular:stories extensions-angular
```

> It is important to note that to use the compiled component output, we need Storybook to import components from their package aliases. This means that any relative import of components should be changed to `import { NewComponentName } from '@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name';`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that to use the compiled component output we need Storybook to import components from their package aliases. This means that any relative import of components should be changed to `import { NewComponentName } from '@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name';`.
```

> It is important to note that to use the compiled component output, we need Storybook to import components from their package aliases. This means that any relative import of components should be changed from `import { NewComponentNameComponent } from './new-component-name.component';` to `import { NewComponentName } from '@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name';`.

Reviewer 2: Consider moving the "to" and the "from" import statement examples to separate lines to improve readability a bit.
 
```suggestion
It is important to note that to use the compiled component output, we need Storybook to import components from their package aliases. This means that any relative import of components should be changed from

`import { NewComponentNameComponent } from './new-component-name.component';`

to

`import { NewComponentName } from '@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name';`.
```

Author: I removed the first import so it reads a bit more cleanly:

> This means that any relative import of components should be changed to
> `import { NewComponentName } from '@kirbydesign/extensions-angular/new-component-name';`.

> To see any changes you make in action, start storybook and library compilation in watch mode with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get live reload of any changes you make in the component and/or story file, start Storybook and library compilation in watch mode with:
```

```shell
npx nx dev extensions-angular
```

> You can also start the storybook development server without compiling libraries in parallel if you only need to edit documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also start the Storybook development server without compiling libraries in parallel if you only need to edit documentation:
```

```shell
npx nx storybook extensions-angular
```

## Documenting Components

> The recommended way to document extensions is to create [Storybook stories](https://Storybook.js.org/docs/get-started/whats-a-story). Documentation pages are automatially created with Storybooks autodocs feature that collects all stories and shows it alongside a property table with the components API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended way to document extensions is to create [Storybook stories](https://Storybook.js.org/docs/get-started/whats-a-story). Documentation pages are automatically created with [Storybook's Autodocs feature](https://storybook.js.org/docs/writing-docs/autodocs) that collects every story and shows them alongside a property table with the component's API.
```

Consider:

> - Documenting each component property with a story, so others can explore options via the 'controls' panel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Documenting each component property with a story, so others can explore options via the 'Controls' panel
```

> - Describe inputs, outputs and methods with `jsdoc` (/\*\*) comments. This shows up as a description in the property table on the docs page

Author: ```suggestion
- Describing inputs, outputs and methods with `jsdoc` (/\*\*) comments. This shows up as a description in the property table on the docs page
```

> - Add `jsdoc` (/\*\*) comments for each story. This shows up on the docs page and can act as a short intro to what the story showcases.

Author: ```suggestion
- Adding `jsdoc` (/\*\*) comments for each story. This shows up on the docs page and can act as a short intro to what the story showcases.
```

> For any custom documentation needs consider consulting the comprehensive [Storybook](https://Storybook.js.org/docs/get-started) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For any custom documentation need consider consulting the comprehensive [Storybook documentation](https://Storybook.js.org/docs/get-started).
```

## Testing Components

> As there is an increased focus on speed of development and experimentation we focus on light unit testing where needed.

Reviewer: The Kirby Extensions library is intentionally created with a focus on speed of development and experimentation. As a result we focus on light unit testing where needed for components created in the extensions package.

> As there is an increased focus on speed of development and experimentation we focus on light unit testing where needed.

Author: ```suggestion
The Kirby Extensions library is intentionally created with a focus on speed of development and experimentation. As a result we focus on light unit testing where needed for components created in the extensions package.
```

It is recommended to add a `.spec.ts` file per component/service/directive. The unit tests should test core functionality such as:

- expected value returned by function calls
- checking that attributes (tab-index, disabled, ...) are applied to markup when expected
- that events are correctly emitted on user-interaction

> _We are working towards screenshot-testing all stories added to storybook. More information will be added here once that is in place._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_We are working towards screenshot-testing all stories added to Storybook. More information will be added here once that is in place._
```
